Welcome back everyone in this lecture we're going to have a brief overview and discussion of plotless
dash and that of his late zation for Python.
So our main goals for this lecture is just to get some context and understanding of what visualization
libraries already exist for Python and then to understand what plotline is and when to use it and also
understand what Dasch is how it's different and partly and when to use Dasch by itself.
So let's get started by answering the question.
What libraries already exist to visualize data with Python.
Now there's actually a ton of visualization libraries are we're not going to go through all of them
here.
We're just going to go through some main ones that have some characteristics similar to politely and
the very first library that we discuss is map plot live.
This is kind of the grandfather of all the data visualization libraries for Python.
And it was modeled after Matlab and other programming language.
Matt leps own plotting capabilities the creator of map plot lib.
One of those plotting capabilities for Python.
So a lot of its syntax and characteristics stem from the language of Matlab and what map plot lib is
good for is to create static image files.
That is something like a j peg or pian g file something that doesn't really change once it's already
been created.
And what's nice about that polyp is even though has a bit of a complex syntax to learn.
It allows you to create almost any plot type gives you a ton of flexibility and it comes a little bit
at the cost of having to learn this kind of tricky syntax because it stems from matlab that you live.
It's going to be for static image files.
And then another really common visualisation library to learn with Python is called Seaborn and C-One
actually uses map lib on the back end and what it does it's really designed to create nice looking statistical
plots.
And again these are static plots.
These are interactive plots.
However seaborne has some cleaner syntax and you can do really nice plots and just a single line of
code but you can only create the statistical plots that are available in the documentation.
If you want to go to different plot types that see more and those that support you'll have to go back
and start using Map Cutlip again because seaborne is basically built on top of that live as kind of
almost like a nice API for some statistical visualizations.
That we can move on to pandas.
Now the main purpose of Panchos is actually data analysis but just like many other libraries in python
we see a common theme here.
Panas uses map Cutlip on the backend through a simple dot plot call you can call off a Panas data frame
and there's a limited scope of the plot types.
You can do here.
But again are static plots and you can do them with one single line of code with Panas but all the plots
you've seen so far are static that is once you generate the image file you can't interact with in any
way.
It's basically like creating a chip jpeg or a PMG file.
Now let's shift our discussion to answering the question what is Plumley and bluntly that term can cause
confusion sometimes because plotless is both a company and an open source library.
So let's differentiate those two for a second.
Partly the company is a company focused on data visualization for business intelligence and they do
things such as reporting dashboards and hosting business intelligence visualization solutions.
So that's the company.
But that company released an open source library by the same name.
It's also called plot Polly and plotless the open source library.
As a general data visualization library focused on interactive visualizations in public is actually
not just unique to Python it has libraries for javascript re-act are in Python.
It just happens to be that the most popular version of this plotline library is for Python so how is
plot Platini the Open-Source library different than things like that plot lib or seaborne and the way
it's different is because using the motley Python library by itself creates interactive plots as HVM
l files.
So these aren't exactly static plots.
You can actually do things like zoom in select and hover.
So keep in mind that while users can still interact with these new plot leape plots that are HTL files
these plots themselves can't really be connected to changing data sources.
Which is where we need something like that.
So when partly once the interactive plot the plot is generated that data that the plot represents is
essentially going to be locked in to the export of State of the plot.
And you would need to somehow rerun that PI script in order to regenerate that.
Each time L5 to see any updates and constantly having to rerun that Paice scripts that's not really
what we want or thinking about dashboards.
So plotline by itself is really great when you just want some nice little interactive image that you
know that datasource behind that is going to be static and not changing.
So let's discuss the other option when we actually want something like a dashboard that will be able
to update and manipulate and interact with.
So often like I was just mentioning users want plots to be able to interact with each other interactive
components or have the plots up in real time and to accomplish this level of tasks we need some sort
of a dashboard which is a step beyond what normal plot can provide for us.
So dash is an open source library from the plot the company that allows you to create the full dashboard
with multiple components interactivity and multiple plots.
And that's really the main focus of this course.
We're going to start off by learning about plot lead and then shift into really diving deep in-dash.
So instead of creating HVM all file like plot leave the open source library would have done dash will
produce a dashboard web application that ends up being open at a local Yoro and then you can visit and
interact with that dashboard in the web application.
So instead of just a simple HVM file being exported we actually get a full blown web app as our dashboard
where we're using the dash library.
Now since that renders a full web app you can then actually deploy dashboards online for other people
to use.
So in conclusion Python has many visualization libraries including many static initialization libraries
and there's a lot more libraries that we didn't have time to mention for this particular lecture.
But when you want to go beyond the static visualization you then have that plot the open source library
which can create interactive images.
And when you want to go a step further and have the actual data source be changing or have interactive
components things like sliders or picking dates.
Then you can use dash and dash is going to create a dashboard web application.
They'll actually be able to see in your browser or deploy online for others to use.
Now it's a big jump just to go straight into cash.
So what we're going to first do is get really comfortable with plot leave that open source library.
We're going to learn how to create lots of different plot types with it.
And then once we feel really comfortable of Lee we'll go ahead and do a deeper dive into dash and creating
dashboards.
All right.
I'm really excited to get started of the technical concepts.
So we'll see you at the next lecture.